Eminent: 杰出

1、中医出海（论文发表）
2、他山之石（西学中医，出口转内销)
3、碎光拼图（柏拉图理型观，本雅明翻译观）
4、交流互鉴（其他传统医学）

Terminology: 术语

Bruise 瘀. Saliva唾液. Lodge被固定，卡住. Massage按摩. Splint夹板. Venomous 有毒的. Feudal封建的. Anthropology人类学、psychology心理学. Viscera内脏、脏腑. Meridian子午线→经络？. Physiology生理学. Pathology病理学. Augment扩大. Elaboration详尽阐述. Distil提炼浓缩. Monograph 专著，
sphygmology脉博学. Indispensable不可或缺的. Acupuncture针刺疗法. Moxibustion艾炙）、etiology 病原学. Pathological病理学的. Pharmacology药理学, therapeutici 医疗的。Formula 配方. Gynecology 妇科. Obstetrics 产科学. Postulate 假定。Purgation 清除tonification补养，diagnosis 诊断. Exogenous 外源性的. Propound 提议. Contagious 接解传染的. Annotate 注释. Trove 发现物. Treatise 专题著作. Longevity 长寿、持久. Synthesis 综合
. Culmination 顶点巅峰
Traditional Chinese medicine 中医
Oriental medicine 东方医学

(Traditional)
Kampo medicine 日本汉方
Korean medicin 韩医学
Vietnamesa medicine （YHCT)越南医学

Diagnostics 诊断学
Chinese Materia Medica 中药
Formula studies 方剂学
Processing of materia herbal

1.Origin of TcM
2~6. Development (warring states)~ Qin Han
7~ 10 .Tang Song
11 ~18. Ming ding

1. The origin of TCM (traditional Chinese medicine) can be traced back to remote antiquity in China. From the time humans first appeared on earth there have been medical practice and activities of healthcare. For instance, in ancient times early humans moistened their bruises with saliva, extracted thorns that lodged in their flesh, and applied leaves or mud on their wounds. They tasted herbs, adopting some and rejecting others. They used massage to relieve pain from the body. They splinted their broken bones with tree branches. When bitten by a venomous animal they themselves or others sucked the poison from the wound. 
2. Following the development of productive forces and progress of human society, people began to know more about their own life activities and to accumulate rich medical knowledge day by day. In Chinese history, the period from the Warring States to the Qin and Han dynasties (5 BC~1 AD) was a time of essential change, when the politico-economic structure of society transitioned from a slavery system to a feudal one. It was a time of intellectual freedom and political uncertainties, during which "the various schools of thought and their exponents rose in swarms and contended one against another heatedly." It was in this atmosphere that astronomy, including the calendar, mathematics, biology, geography, anthropology, psychology, and agricultural technology all began to flourish. Meanwhile, the theories of yin-yang and of the five elements, as well as the concept of the vital essence, gradually matured and became extensively used to interpret natural phenomena and to express their regularities as laws. 
3. Under the guidance of these natural sciences, there appeared an early medical classic——the Huangdi's Internal Classi, or the Internal Classic for short. The Internal Classic explained the laws of life and the unity of the body with the natural world. It provided a systematic discussion of anatomy the viscera and the meridians physiology and pathology. It also expounded the diagnosis, prevention and treatment of diseases. Natural science and philosophy were deliberately combined in the Internal Classic, which provided a deep interdisciplinary approach toward medicine and medical practice. It is aptly regarded as the initial formulation of TCM theory. The Internal Classic was considered advanced in its time, and it contributed greatly to medicine in the ancient world. In particular, in the aspect of blood circulation it put forward the viewpoint of "the heart governs the blood vessels," and realized that "blood travels in the vessels endlessly like a circle." It may be noted that these descriptions occurred more than 1,000 year before Harvey, who in the 17th century was the first to describe blood circulation in Western medicine. 
4. After the Internal Classic, the Classic on Medical Problems appeared before the Han dynasty (206 BC-220 AD). It is a very important canon that augments and supplements the difficult questions posed by the Internal Classic. It is an important contribution to the development of the basic theory of TCM, especially its elaboration of the theories of pulse study, visceral manifestations, meridians and so on, thereby providing a theoretical basis for the principles of treatment and the establishment of prescriptions. 
5. In the last years of the Eastern Han dynasty (25-220 AD),the eminent physician Zhang Zhongjing built upon the foundation of the Internal Classic, the Classic on Medical Problems and other medical works. Distilling this rich tradition he combined it with his own practical experiences. He wrote an important masterpiece, the Treatise on Cold-Attack and Miscellaneous Diseases. Subsequently, the work was rearranged by Wang Shuhe, a famous physician of the Jin dynasty (265-420 AD), and divided into two books, namely the Treatise on Cold-Attack and the Essentials from the Golden Cabinet. The Treatise on Cold-Attack created the framework for the clinical analysis of diseases by the six meridians and established the foundation for the differentiation of disease states by the eight principles of diagnostics. The 113 prescriptions in the book further unified the basic theory and bedside experience and led to a deeper understanding of the relationship in the TCM medical system among theory, strategy, prescription and herbs. The Essentials from the Golden Cabinet used the theory of disease processes in the zang and fu to formulate the classification and diagnosis of diseases. It recorded over 40 kinds of diseases, and further advanced the study of disease etiology.Both works exerted great influence upon the subsequent development of TCM.
6. During the same era, there was further accumulation in the knowledge of materia medica. Shen Nong's Herbal Classic is the oldest monograph on materia medica extant in China. This work summarized descriptions of 365 distinct Chinese herbs, and classified them into three grades: superior, medium and inferior. It systematically summed up the knowledge and experiences of the people of the Qin and Han dynasties, and also exerted important influence on the subsequent development in the field of Chinese materia medica. 
7. Throughout the Jin, Sui, Tang and Song dynasties,the TCM theoretic system continued to develop, to deepen and to improve from many sources. 
8. During the Jin dynasty, Wang Shuhe brought together all the knowledge about the pulse, augmented it with new content and wrote his monograph on sphygmology, the Pulse Classic. He summarized the 24 kinds of pulse profiles relating to the principal diseases and systematized the theory of the pulse, thereby making an indispensable contribution to sphygmology. Also during the Jin dynasty, Huangfu Mi compiled his Classic of A's and B's of Acupuncture and Moxibustion, the oldest extant monograph in China on acupuncture and moxibustion, and summarized all the knowledge attained in the previous ages. During the Sui dynasty (581-618 AD) Chao Yuanfang and his colleagues compiled their General Treatise on the Causes and Symptoms of Diseases. This was TCM's first monograph of pathology. It described the etiology and pathological mechanisms of 1,739 kinds of symptoms and signs, and was an essential reference for clinical practice. 
9. During the Tang dynasty (618~907 AD) pharmacology in TCM made great strides. Su Jing and others compiled the Newly Revised Materia Medica. Also known as the Tang Herbal, it was the world's first pharmacopoeia, appearing over 800 years before the Newlonpaw Pharmacopoeia of Europe. The Prescriptions Worth a Thousand Gold, written by Sun Simiao, and the Medical Secrets of an Official, compiled by Wang Tao, were both great comprehensive medical references. They collected a large number of therapeutic techniques and effective formulas. 
10. During the Song dynasty (960~1127 AD), Chen Ziming compiled the Complete Effective Prescriptions for Women. It was an important work of TCM gynecology and obstetrics with rich and comprehensive contents; and it was an important source of information for many generations of physicians. The Key to Therapeutics of Children's Diseases, written by Qian Yi, was the earliest monograph on TCM pediatrics. It recorded many effective formulas for treating children's diseases. 
11. Throughout the Jin, Yuan, Ming and Qing dynasties, many physicians built their own experiences and understanding, on the foundation of inherited theory and practical experiences, and were able to gain their own individual insights. The situation became one of many physicians putting forth their own theories and methods of treatment from a variety of perspectives. The competitiveness stimulated and strengthened TCM theory and produced many breakthrough advances. 
12. Among the many diverse and distinctive schools of medical thought, the most representative are those of Liu Wansu, Li Gao, Zhang Congzheng, and Zhu Zhenheng. Later scholars have honored them as The Four Great Schools of Jin-Yuan (1115~1368 AD). 
13. Liu Wansu extended the theories of pathology and qi of the Internal Classic, and propounded his theory of fire-heat. He asserted that most diseases resulted from injury by the fire evil, so that treatment should be based principally on inducing cooling. Later scholars labeled his teachings as the Cold-Cool School. 
14. Zhang Congzheng postulaed that all diseases were caused by exogenous evils. He vigorously advocated basing treatment principally on the expulsion of such disease evils, and opposed the excessive use of herbs that tonify. His teachings became known as the School of Purgation. 
15. Li Gao held that "diseases ensue when the spleen and stomach are injured internally." Treatment should therefore emphasize nourishing the spleen and the stomach. His teachings became known as the School of Earth-Strengthening, or the School of Spleen-Stomach. 
16. Zhu Zhenheng put forward the theory that"yang is generally excessive while yin is generally deficient" and described "depression." In treatment he tended to promote medicinals that relieve depression or nourish yin. Later physicians honored him and called his teachings the School of Yin-Nourishment. 
17. During the subsequent Ming dynasty (1368~1644 AD), Zhang Jingyue advocated the theory of warm-tonification of the spleen and the kidney, and warned that cold or cool drugs should only be used with caution. His teachings became known as the School of Warm-Tonification. 
18. These schools not only enriched TCM theory but also expanded the contents of clinical diagnosis and treatment. Their achievements have had a profound and lasting influence upon physicians of later generations. 
19. During the Ming and Qing dynasties, three features characterized the advances in TCM. 
20. One was the development in the treatment of diseases caused by exogenous heat evil. Wu Youke, Ye Gui, Wu Tang and many others forming the School of Heat Diseases. In this school, the diagnosis and treatment of diseases caused by heat were raised to a higher standard. Wu Youke also wrote the Treatise on Pestilence and propounded a theory of the pestilence-evil. He was the first to offer a relatively complete study of the etiology and therapeutics of contagious diseases of heat, and laid the foundation of today's theory of diseases of heat. During the Qing dynasty (1644~1911 AD), Ye Gui wrote the Treatise on Febrile Diseases, Wu Tang wrote the Treatise on the Differentiation and Treatment of Febrile Diseases, Xue Shengbai wrote the Treatise on Dampness-Heat Diseases, and Wang Mengying wrote A Compendium on Febrile Diseases. These books, and others, systematically brought together all information from the Ming and Qing dynasties concerning contagious diseases caused by external disease evils and their pathology. They significantly enriched the TCM theoretical system and enhanced its development. 
21. The second feature was the marked development in the study of Chinese materia medica and pharmacology. The Compendium of Materia Medica, compiled by Li Shizhen in the Ming dynasty, recorded and annotated 1,892 kinds of herbs, and was the most comprehensive summarization of materia medica in the 16th century. It occupied an important place in the world as well as in China. Also in the Ming dynasty, Zhu Su and others compiled the Prescriptions for Universal Relief. This monumental work described 61,139 formulas; it is still a treasure-trove for research on prescriptions. 
22. The third feature was the appearance of a very large number of comprehensive treatises, such as Wang Kentang's Standards of Diagnosis and Treatment, Gong Tingxian's Longevity and Life Preservation, Zhang Jingyue's Complete Works of Jingyue, Wu Qian's Golden Mirror of Medical Works, and others. This tendency toward synthesis was the culmination of the vast progress over many years and in the many fields within TCM. (Abridged from Essentials of Chinese Medicine by Zhanwen Liu)






















